well the conflict between Israel and
Palestinians is also playing out in the
world of culture theater projects open
Paths of expression for Palestinian kids
DW's Rebecca Richards went to Janine in
the occupied West Bank to visit one such
project an institution offering young
people in the city and in a neighboring
refugee camp a way to think about the
past and act on the
future in here it's
1920 these young Palestinian actors are
rehearsing a play telling the story of
this
region
1,920 after World War
I the production recounts historical
displacement and occupation told by the
youth who were living the
[Music]
consequences it's the latest in Janine's
Freedom theater program since its
founding by an Israeli activist in the
late 1980s this youth theater has aimed
to be a refuge for young Palestinians
here in the northern West Bank when we
come here we are able to express our
emotions what we feel we have great
energy that's bured inside of us after
everything we witnessed from bombings
shootings and raids so we come here to
evacuate this energy and we feel safe
here so we can express what's on our
chest and say whatever we
want but not only that organizers see
themselves as Freedom Fighters very much
part of a resistance
movement the space was created to Foster
cultural rather than armed opposition to
Israel's occupation and has itself been
the target of
violence honestly I don't know what the
reasons are but in my opinion art and
culture have a strong message a strong
resistance and defense for this reason
the freedom theater is and has been
targeted for
years
in 2002 during the second Palestinian
Uprising the Israeli military destroyed
it now the war in Gaza and tensions in
the West Bank are threatening it
again after the events that took place
on the 7th of October everything changed
indeed in the whole region not only in
Gaza but also in the West Bank and all
Palestinian
territories
Palestine in December during an
incursion on Janine Israeli forces
raided the theater painted graffiti on
the walls and arrested two of its staff
one is still in detention without charge
project leaders try but cannot take
their mind off what's happening in their
city with me ordinary life we me not
worrying about what could happen in two
hours we constantly hear the sound of
drones in the
sky yet despite the fear and the
pressure organizers continue with their
part in what they call
resist I hope that one day that we in
the West Bank Palestinians leaving in
Israel and those living in Gaza we find
the freedom and Independence we aspire
to because it's impossible to keep
living this way everyone deserves
freedom and peace and has the right to
live as they want has the right to
decide their own
destiny using culture to look back at
the past with a clear mission to try to
affect the
future